We present KDPE a Kernel density estimation strategy
for diffusion policy trajectory selection.
When diffusion policy is used in an
environment to complete a task,
only one trajectory of actions per observation
is sampled from the model.
However, the sample trajectory may not be optimal.
In fact,
an outlier trajectory could lead the model out of
distribution causing the failure of the task.
Sampling more trajectories from the same observation
can give us more information about
the conditional distribution.
Given the current observation,
our method samples N trajectories and estimates the
probability density distribution of the last actions.
To estimate the PDF of the actions,
we use kernel density estimation.
A kernel function is centered on every data points and
the final PDF is obtained by summing
all the kernel functions.
We use a Gaussian kernel as our KDE kernel function.
However, since the actions have a rotation component,
we need to modify the kernel to handle it.
This is done by finding the relative rotation between
the kernel mean rotation and the input rotation and
converting it to axis angle representation.
Because of this,
the quadratic form of the Gaussian function computes the
distance between the rotation components
as the geodesic distance.
Once we have estimated the densities of final actions,
we execute the trajectory associated
with the action of higher density.
We evaluate our algorithm on a set of seven tasks from
two different benchmark and measure the
success rate over 100 episodes.
The results on the benchmark show that KDP outperforms
the compared methods on most of the tasks and overall
achieves higher average success rate.
In particular,
KDPE achieves a larger performance improvement on
precision tasks as tool hang and on tasks
learned from lower quality data.
We also compared KDP to diffusion policy
on three real world tasks.
In the recordings you can see the three tasks
being successfully completed by KDPE.
KDPE scores better performance than the baseline
in all three real world tasks,
confirming the results observed in simulation.